This exercise had you complete a rack and stack worksheet
for six projects in marketing and procurement and supply chain.
The exercise directed you to determine the relative strategic alignment, cost,
complexity of implementation, certainty of value capture,
and magnitude of benefit for each of the six projects.
I'll share my ratings from my assessment.
Your ratings may vary,
which is absolutely fine.
As you can see, project 1,
customer loyalty program, is directly aligned with strategic goals.
Because of the extensive data required,
as well as the need to build a system of loyalty all for delivery as part of the project,
this project is only medium in both cost and complexity of implementation.
I project large benefit for this project.
But because this is the business' first foray into loyalty programs,
and many different parts of the business must align in order to execute,
the likelihood of initially capturing value is not high.
Project 2, customer loyalty assessment,
is also aligned closely to strategic goals.
The departmental edges of the project are much more narrow,
so cost and complexity of implementation are much lower.
Action on the information gained is not clearly defined however,
so only medium benefit is projected.
For this reason as well,
the project does not have high likelihood of value delivery.
Project 3, assessing customer attitudes,
is aligned with strategic goals and has
the lowest cost and implementation complexity of the set,
as it requires no new data,
relying only on extent data from social media sites.
Moreover, methods of scraping such data are well established,
which contributes to the high likelihood of capturing value.
The benefit of this project is projected to be among the lowest of the group however,
as there is no clear value-driven use
identified for the information generated from the project.
Procurement is key to this business,
so project 4, procurement optimization,
is closely aligned with strategic goals.
This project will require purchase of external market data,
so cost is moderate.
But there will be little need for new data internally,
so complexity of implementation should be relatively low.
Raw material procurement is a critical component of the business' operations,
so optimizing procurement should bring medium to high benefit.
Material pricing is driven by market factors out of the business' control however,
so there's substantial uncertainty around value capture.
Supply chain operations are also mission critical to the company,
so project 5, supply chain optimization,
is directly aligned with strategic goals.
It will require a fair amount of data engineering to bring
data from silos associated with the many factories,
so cost will be moderate,
but complexity should not be huge once these ETL pipelines are built.
Purchasing an inventory are cost-heavy operations,
so centralizing and optimizing these functions should bring large benefit to the company.
The project's success is incumbent on
operational changes in not only procurement and inventory,
but also delivery, so the project has
only medium certainty of delivering on the value expected of it.
Finally, project 6, demand forecasting,
is also closely aligned to strategic goals.
This project will rely primarily on established data streams,
so both cost and complexity should be relatively low.
Being able to anticipate demand swings, and schedule production,
and manage inventory accordingly are important levers to the business,
so the project should bring medium to high benefit to the business.
Moreover, demand forecasting methods are well established,
so this project should be among the most likely to deliver on its expected value.